Some basic updates to perf testing. More to come. (#570)
microsoft/code-with-engineering-playbook: automated-testing/performance-testing/readme.md

# Performance Testing

> Performance Testing is an overloaded term that is used to refer to several sub
> categories of performance related testing, each of which has different purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance Testing is an overloaded term that is used to refer to several subcategories of performance related testing, each of which has different purpose.
```

A good description of overall performance testing is as follows:

> Performance testing is a type of testing intended to determine the
responsiveness, throughput, reliability, and/or scalability of a system under a
given workload. [Performance Testing Guidance for Web
Applications](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/blogs/dajung/ebook-pnp-performance-testing-guidance-for-web-applications).

> The important take away here is that performance testing goes beyond simple user

Reviewer 2: this seems to re-iterate the quote above. I removed it!

  - Capacity planning is the process of determining what type of hardware and
    software resources are required to run an application with the given user
    load. Poor performing applications require more hardware and thus are more
    expensive to operate. Capacity planning involves identifying business
    expectations, the periodic fluctuations of application usage, considering
    the cost of running the hardware and software infrastructure.

- To reduce **downtime**

  - Systems that go down cost money. Many estimates, as of 2020, suggest that
    the average cost of IT downtime is $5,600 per minute. There are additional
    costs that do not show up in dollar form, such as the cost of interruptions
    to IT professionals who may otherwise be doing more productive work.

## Key Performance Testing categories

Performance testing is a broad topic. There are many areas where you can perform
tests. In broad strokes you can perform tests on the backend and on the front
end. You can test the performance of individual components as well as testing
the end\-to\-end functionality.

There are several categories of tests as well:

### Load Testing

> This is the subcategory of performance testing which focuses on validating the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the subcategory of performance testing that focuses on validating the
```

> performance characteristics of a system, when the system faces load volumes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
performance characteristics of a system, when the system faces the load volumes
```

> which are expected during production operation. **Endurance Test** or **Soak

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expected during production operation. An **Endurance Test** or a **Soak
```

Test** is a load test carried over a long duration ranging from several hours to
days.

### Stress Testing

> This is the subcategory of performance testing which focuses on validating the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the subcategory of performance testing that focuses on validating the
```

performance characteristics of a system when the system faces extreme load. The
goal is to evaluate how does the system handles being pressured to its limits,
does it recover (i.e., scale\-out) or does it just break and fail?

### Good Performance Under Extended Periods of Load

The goal of endurance testing is to make sure that the software can maintain
good performance when extended periods of load.

### Spike testing

The goal of Spike testing is to validate that a software system can respond well
to large and sudden spikes.

### Chaos testing

Chaos testing or Chaos engineering is the practice of experimenting on a system
to build confidence that the system can withstand turbulent conditions in
production. Its goal is to identify weaknesses before they manifest system wide.
Developers often implement fallback procedures for service failure. Chaos
testing arbitrarily shuts down different parts of the system to validate that
fallback procedures function correctly.

## Performance monitor metrics

> When executing the various types of testing approaches, whether it is stress,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When executing the various types of tests, whether it is stress,
```

> endurance, spike, or chaos testing, it will be important to capture various

Reviewer: ```suggestion
endurance, spike, or chaos testing, it is important to capture various
```

metrics to see how the system performs.

At the basic hardware level, there are four areas to consider.

- Physical disk
- Memory
- Processor
- Network

These four areas are inextricably linked, meaning that poor performance in one
area will lead to poor performance in another area. Engineers concerned with
understanding application performance, should focus on these four core areas.

> The classic example of how performs in one area can affect performance in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The classic example of how performance in one area can affect performance in
```

another area is memory pressure.

If an application's available memory is running low, the operating system will
try to compensate for shortages in memory by transferring pages of data from
memory to disk, thus freeing up memory. But this work requires help from the CPU
and the physical disk.

This means that when you look at performance when there are low amounts of
memory, you will also notice spikes in disk activity as well as CPU.

## Physical Disk

Almost all software systems are dependent on the performance of the physical
disk. This is especially true for the performance of databases. More modern
approaches to using SSD’s for physical disk storage can dramatically improve the
performance of applications. Here are some of the metrics that you can capture
and analyze:

| Counter | Description  |
|:-------------------- |:--------------------  |
| Avg. Disk Queue Length | This value is derived using the (Disk Transfers/sec)*(Disk sec/Transfer) counters. This metric describes the disk queue over time, smoothing out any quick spikes. Having any physical disk with an average queue length over 2 for prolonged periods of time can be an indication that your disk is a bottleneck.  |

> | % Idle Time | This is a measure of the percentage of time that the disk was idle. ie. there are no pending disk requests from the operating system waiting to be completed. A low number here is a positive sign that disk has excess capacity to service or write requests from the operating system.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| % Idle Time | This is a measure of the percentage of time that the disk was idle. i.e. there are no pending disk requests from the operating system waiting to be completed. A low number here is a positive sign that disk has excess capacity to service or write requests from the operating system.  |
```

of data being sent and received within a unit of time.

## Memory

| Counter | Description  |
|:-------------------- |:--------------------  |
| Available MBs | This counter represents the amount of memory that is available to applications that are executing. Low memory can trigger Page Faults, whereby additional pressure is put on the CPU to swap memory to and from the disk. if the amount of available memory dips below 10%, more memory should be obtained.  |
| Pages/sec | This is actually the sum of &quot;Pages Input/sec&quot; and &quot;Pages Output/sec&quot; counters which is the rate at which pages are being read and written as a result of pages faults. Small spikes with this value do not mean there is an issue but sustained values of greater than 50 can mean that system memory is a bottleneck.  |
| Paging File(_Total)\% Usage | The percentage of the system page file that is currently in use. This is not directly related to performance, but you can run into serious application issues if the page file does become completely full and additional memory is still being requested by applications.  |

## Key Performance testing activities

> Performance testing activities vary depending on sub category of performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance testing activities vary depending on subcategory of performance
```

test, the engagement requirements and constraints. For specific guidance you can

> follow the link to the sub category of performance tests listed above. Following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
follow the link to the subcategory of performance tests listed above. Following
```

> are some activities which will generally be involved:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are some activities that may be involved:
```

### Identify and Define the Acceptance criteria for the tests

> This will generally include identifying and defining the goals and constrains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will generally include identifying and defining the goals and constrains
```
```suggestion
This will generally include identifying and defining the goals and constraints
```

for the performance characteristics of the system

### Plan and design the tests

In general we need to consider the following points:

> - Defining the load the application would be tested with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Defining the load the application should be tested with
```

- Establishing the metrics to be collected

> - Establish which tools will be used for the tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Establish what tools will be used for the tests
```

- Establish the performance test frequency : whether the performance tests be
  done as a part of the feature development sprints, or only prior to release to
  a major environment?

### Test implementation

- Apply the design and create the performance tests based on them

### Test Execution

- Execute the tests and collect the performance metrics. Take note of the

>   previous section Around Load Testing, Chaos Testing, Stress and Spike Testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  previous section around load testing, chaos testing, stress testing, and spike testing
```

### Result analysis and re-testing

> - The test are executed, the results are collected and the environments are monitored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Collect the test results
```

> - The results are analysed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Analyze the test results
```

> - Depending on the scenario, modification of application or configuration are

Reviewer: Follow the same pattern as in the earlier sections with active sentences. i.e. Depending on the scenario, modify the application or configuration and repeat the tests.

    SKUs to meet the desired performance characteristics of a system

  - Identifying bottlenecks and issues with the application at different load
    levels

- To compare the **performance impact of application changes**

  - Comparing the performance characteristics of an application after a change
    to the values of performance characteristics during previous runs (or
    baseline values), can provide an indication of performance issues or
    enhancements introduced due to a change

- To **support system tuning**

  - Comparing performance characteristics of a system for different system
    configurations

- To assist **capacity planning**

  - Capacity planning is the process of determining what type of hardware and
    software resources are required to run an application with the given user
    load. Poor performing applications require more hardware and thus are more
    expensive to operate. Capacity planning involves identifying business
    expectations, the periodic fluctuations of application usage, considering
    the cost of running the hardware and software infrastructure.

- To reduce **downtime**

>   - Systems that go down cost money. For every second thought. Amazon Web

Author: Will follow up on all of these in the next day or so. Thanks, @alkofahi !

    services is down, is a loss of eleven hundred dollars per second. And for
    financial services firms’ downtime could mean lawsuits and customer
    attrition.

## Key Performance Testing categories

Performance testing is a broad topic. There are many areas where you can perform
tests. In broad strokes you can perform tests on the backend and on the front
end. You can test the performance of individual components as well as testing
the end\-to\-end functionality.

There are several categories of tests as well:

> ### Load Testing

Reviewer 2: please re-add the link to the load-testing document

Author: Yes, agreed. Updated to avoid names.

Reviewer 2: The title used to link to "./load-testing.md" that focuses on load-testing. Can you re-add the link, either to the title or somewhere in the paragraph.

This is the subcategory of performance testing which focuses on validating the
performance characteristics of a system, when the system faces load volumes
which are expected during production operation. **Endurance Test** or **Soak
Test** is a load test carried over a long duration ranging from several hours to
days.

### Stress Testing

This is the subcategory of performance testing which focuses on validating the
performance characteristics of a system when the system faces extreme load. The
goal is to evaluate how does the system handles being pressured to its limits,
does it recover (i.e., scale\-out) or does it just break and fail?

### Endurance testing

The goal of endurance testing is to make sure that the software can maintain

> good performance when extended periods of load.

Reviewer 2: suggestion: good performance under extended periods of load

Author: Agreed. More clear. Easier to read.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I think I did not elaborate. I meant to change the text in the paragraph "can maintain
good performance when extended periods of load." to "can maintain
good performance under extended periods of load."...I think the title should remain "Endurance testing" as that is the commonly known name for this kind of test

greater than 2-3 there might be CPU pressure.

## Network Adapter

Network speed is often a hidden culprit of poor performance. Finding the root
cause to poor network performance is often difficult. The source of issues can
originate from bandwidth hogs such as videoconferencing, transaction data,
network backups, recreational videos.

Packet loss is another area that contributes to poor performance. It occurs when
packets fail to reach their destination, either by errors in the data
transmission or network congestion. Packet loss can also be caused by Dos/DDoS
attacks.

Some of the tools that can help include:

- ifconfig
- netstat
- iperf
- tcpretrans
- tcpdump
- WireShark

For most of these counters below, there are no hard and fast numbers. Wi-Fi
speeds are lower as compared to wired, ethernet speeds. Networking speeds have
increased dramatically over the years. We can expect all the numbers below to
change over time.

| Network Type | Speed  |
|:-------------------- |:--------------------  |
| Basic Wifi Speed | 3 to 8 Mpbs  |
| Moderate Wifi Speed | 10 to 25 Mpbs  |
| Fast Wifi Speed | 300 to 1000 Mbps  |
| Fast Ethernet | 100 Mbps  |
| Gigabit Ethernet | 1,000 Mbps  |

> | 10 Gigabit Ethernet | 10,000 Mbps  |

Reviewer 2: what are we going for in this section?

Author: I'll try to explain. the idea I could explain better is that measuring performance is dependent on the capacity of the network type.

### Network Counters

The table above gives you some reference points to better understand what you
can expect out of your network. Here are some counters that can help you

> understand where the bottlenecks might exist:

Reviewer 2: I think the metrics below can be explained without the table above

Author: Agreed. It made sense to remove it. Put in some basic troubleshooting steps instead.

### Bytes Received/sec

The rate at which bytes are received over each network adapter.

### Bytes Sent/sec

The rate at which bytes are sent over each network adapter.

### Bytes Total/sec

The number of bytes sent and received over the network.

### Segments Received/sec

The rate at which segments are received for the protocol

### Segments Sent/sec

The rate at which segments are sent.

### % Interrupt Time

The percentage of time the processor spends receiving and servicing hardware
interrupts. This value is an indirect indicator of the activity of devices that
generate interrupts, such as network adapters.

> There is an important distinction between **latency** and **throughput**.
**Latency** measures the time it takes for a packet to be transferred across the
network, either in terms of a one\-way transmission or a round\-trip
transmission. **Throughput** is different and attempts to measure the quantity

> of data being sent and received within a unit of time.

Reviewer 2: Since they all are one-liners, could you plz change them to bullet points or a table?

Author: Good idea. They now all look good as tables.
